Security information and event management is
a fundamental pillar of information security.
As you start operationalizing and deploying workloads to a cloud environment,
it is critical that there is insight into
activity and events related to cloud accounts or applications.
It is important to have this monitoring in place,
in order to identify any anomalous or suspicious activity in cloud accounts,
servers, networks, and applications.
Also to provide traceability for forensics and root cause analysis,
and auditability for access to sensitive data or actions.
Let's look at some of the events sources available in
AWS and methods to monitor these sources.
Let's start with CloudTrail.
CloudTrail is the source of activity logging within an AWS account.
Any API activity, console usage,
cross account access, etc,
will be recorded in CloudTrail.
CloudTrail will log all activity and allow you to search these logs for 90 days.
However, it is highly recommended to set up CloudTrail logs
in all accounts and all regions to be written to S3 buckets,
preferably to a central S3 bucket in a dedicated security account.
These logs can then be examined later or
ingested by a log analysis or a SIEM tool such as Elasticsearch,
Splunk or Sumo Logic.
CloudTrail is by far the most valuable tool to
monitor and audit activity in your AWS account.
CloudTrail provides many capabilities for saving and sending log events to other sources.
When VPC Flow Logs are enabled,
you will have insight into some metrics related to network activity.
For example, connection attempts, rejects,
allows or denies, source and destination IPs and ports,
and packet and byte counts.
It is important to note that VPC Flow Logs do not provide
visibility into actual traffic content or payload.
If you need visibility into network traffic content in order
to perform more sophisticated detection of activity,
you can enable VPC traffic mirroring.
Once VPC traffic mirroring is enabled,
you can ship this data to third party network monitoring tools for further analysis.
Any changes to an S3 buckets configuration will be logged as API calls by CloudTrail.
But what about reading and writing data?
From a security standpoint,
it is important to be aware of attempts to read or write objects to S3 buckets,
especially those that contains sensitive or critical data.
Object level logging is optional and can be enabled either
through CloudTrail or the S3 bucket settings.
All calls to read or write data can then be recorded through CloudTrail.
S3 also provides an option to log calls to access objects
stored in S3 directly to a log file which resembles a web server access log.
The benefit to using CloudTrail is that these read or write actions can be integrated
and monitored using the same methods that would be used to monitor the CloudTrail feed.
AWS Config logs record all state changes for
any resources that are being monitored by AWS Config.
These logs can be sent to a log analysis tool to
gain deeper visibility into configuration state changes.
If using Route 53 for DNS,
DNS Query logging is also available.
This can be useful if your security program needs to monitor
DNS queries for domains that are setup in AWS Route 53.
Regardless of your choice to enable DNS Query logging,
AWS does maintain these logs behind the scenes,
and we'll use them for identifying suspicious activity.
Operating system and security logs are also critical
to identifying suspicious activity or auditing usage.
These logs can be sent to CloudWatch Logs or other log analysis tools
or products that provide intrusion detection
and dynamic host space security event monitoring.
As you can see, there are many events sources to gain data from.
You'll choose different sources to detect different events and gain new insights.
Next, we'll look at how to monitor some of the data from these sources.